Software: Socket.io (#21)
PoCInnovation/Workshops: software/19.Socket.io/SETUP.md

# Workshop 19 - Setup

## Tools

> FOr this workshop, you need to install these tools : 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this workshop, you need to install these tools : 
```

- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/webstorm/) on your computer
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 10 ([installation](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=how+to+install+nodejs))
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (Generally installed with NodeJS)

## Preparation

> Download the  [sources](./source.zip) to have base to start from.

Reviewer: Fix english

Sources are composed with the following files:
- `package.json` : Dependency manager of NPM
- `package-lock.json` : A file containing the versions of each dependency used on the project.
- `tsconfig.json` : A configuration file for the Typescript.
- `src/index.ts` : Server express and draw "Hello World" on your localhost.
- `src/server/server.ts` : Class server allowing to listen according to the given port.
- `src/router/router.ts` : Defines the listening routes for our server.
- `src/Front/chat.ts` :Empty file which will accommodate our configuration to front page.

> - `src/Front/index.html` : HTML page for our Online Chat.

Reviewer: You could add a tree view.
E.g [Neo4J](https://github.com/PoCInnovation/Workshops/blob/master/software/10.Neo4j/SETUP.md#2-download-bootstrap)

You just have to follow these steps:
- Create folder `workshop-learn-socket`
- Copy file `source.zip` in the folder
- Launch command `unzip source.zip`
- Install dependencies with the command `npm install`

> - Check that everything works with the command `npm run dev`

Reviewer: You can move thoses lines into a code snippet
```
# Create folder
mkdir -p "workshop-learn-socket"
...
```

You should get the following output:
```sh
[1] [nodemon] restarting due to changes...

> [1] [nodemon] starting `node dist/index.js`

Reviewer: Isn't hello world?

```

> You can go to the [workshop](./README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Go back to exercises](./README.md).
```

For this workshop, you need to install these tools : 
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/webstorm/) on your computer
- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 10 ([installation](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=how+to+install+nodejs))
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (Generally installed with NodeJS)

## Preparation

Download the  [sources](./source.zip) to have a base to start from.

Sources are composed with the following files:

```shell
$ tree -a

├── package.json # Dependency manager of NPM
├── package-lock.json # A file containing the versions of each dependency used on the project.
├── README.md
├── SETUP.md
├── src
│   ├── Front
│   │   ├── chat.ts # Empty file which will accommodate our configuration to front page.
│   │   └── index.html # HTML page for our Online Chat.
│   ├── index.ts # Server express and draw "Hello World" on your localhost.
│   ├── router
│   │   └── router.ts # Defines the listening routes for our server.
│   └── server
│       └── server.ts # Class server allowing to listen according to the given port.
└── tsconfig.json # A configuration file for the Typescript.

```

You just have to follow these steps:

> ```shell 
> $ mkdir -p poc-workshop-Socket-Io # Create a new directory
> $ cd poc-workshop-Socket-Io # Go in
> 
> # Installation
> $ mv -t . ~/Downloads/source.zip # Move source in the directory
> $ unzip source.zip # Extract source
> $ rm source.zip # Remove zip
> $ npm install # Install dependencies with the command
> $ run npm dev # Check that everything works with the command
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell 
# Create a new directory
mkdir -p poc-workshop-Socket-Io

# Move to that directory
cd poc-workshop-Socket-Io 

# Move source zip in the directory
mv -t . ~/Downloads/source.zip

# Extract source
unzip source.zip

# Remove old zip
rm source.zip

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Launch project
run npm dev
```
```

# Workshop 19 - Setup

> ## Tools
> 
> FOr this workshop, you need to install these tools : 
> - [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/webstorm/) on your computer

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Tools

For this workshop, you need to install these tools : 
- [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) or [WebStorm](https://www.jetbrains.com/fr-fr/webstorm/) on your computer
```

- [NodeJS](https://nodejs.org/en/) >= 10 ([installation](https://lmgtfy.com/?q=how+to+install+nodejs))
- [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/) (Generally installed with NodeJS)

## Preparation

> Download the  [sources](./source.zip) in the root of the repository to have a base to start from.

Reviewer: Add the zip
```suggestion
Download the [sources](./source.zip) in the root of the repository to have a base to start from.
```

> Sources are composed with the following files:
> 
> ```shell

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sources are composed of the following files:

```shell
```

$ tree -a

├── package.json # Dependency manager of NPM
├── package-lock.json # A file containing the versions of each dependency used on the project.
├── README.md
├── SETUP.md
├── src
│   ├── Front
│   │   ├── chat.ts # Empty file which will accommodate our configuration to front page.
│   │   └── index.html # HTML page for our Online Chat.
│   ├── index.ts # Server express and draw "Hello World" on your localhost.
│   ├── router
│   │   └── router.ts # Defines the listening routes for our server.
│   └── server
│       └── server.ts # Class server allowing to listen according to the given port.
└── tsconfig.json # A configuration file for the Typescript.

```

You just have to follow these steps:
```shell 

> # Create a new directory
> mkdir -p poc-workshop-Socket-Io
> # Move to that directory
> cd poc-workshop-Socket-Io 
> # Move source zip in the directory
> mv -t . ~/Downloads/source.zip
> # Extract source
> unzip source.zip
> # Remove old zip
> rm source.zip
> # Install dependencies
> npm install
> # Launch project
> run npm dev
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create a new directory
mkdir -p poc-workshop-Socket-Io

# Move to that directory
cd poc-workshop-Socket-Io 

# Move source zip in the directory
mv -t . ~/Downloads/source.zip

# Extract source
unzip source.zip

# Remove old zip
rm source.zip

# Install dependencies
npm install

# Launch project
run npm dev
```
```

You should get the following output:
```sh
[1] [nodemon] restarting due to changes...
[1] [nodemon] starting `node dist/index.js`
Hello World !
```

If you go on your browser at http://localhost:8080/
you should see this on the screen :

```
Hello World !
```

> The server launch and don't need to be launch again with nodemon.
> The script in your package.json allow to take account of modifications
> of your code to launch the server by itself.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The server runs and doesn't need to be run again with `nodemon`.
The script in your `package.json` reload it for you after each modification.
```
